# 2022-01-14

## 01 & 02 The goal of 6.031

Our primary goal in this course is learning how to produce software that is:

* Safe from bugs
* Easy to understand
* Ready for change

## 03 Testing

Testing is an example of a more general process called validation.  Validation includes:

1. Formal reasoning
2. Code review
3. Testing

### Partition, Subdomain, Test Case

We divide the input space into subdomains.

Taken together, the subdomains form a partition: a collection of disjoint sets that completely covers the input space.

A test case is a particular choice of inputs, along with the expected output behavior required by the specification.

### Boundaries

Bugs often occur at boundaries between subdomains.

We incorporate boundaries as single-element subdomains in the partition, so that the test suite will necessarily include the boundary value as a test case.

### Black box and glass box testing

Black box testing: Choosing test cases only from the specification, not the implementation of the function

Glass box testing: Choosing test cases with knowledge of how the function is actually implemented. When doing glass box testing, you must take care that your test cases don’t require specific implementation behavior that isn’t specifically called for by the spec.

### Coverage

* Statement coverage
* Branch coverage
* Path coverage

### Unit test & Integration test

Unit Tests: Test a single module in isolation.

Integration test: Tests a combination of modules, or even the entire program.

### Automated regression testing

Automated testing means running the tests and checking their results automatically. The code that runs tests on a module is a test driver (also known as a test harness or test runner).

Running the tests frequently while you’re changing the code prevents your program from regressing — introducing other bugs when you fix new bugs or add new features. Running all your tests after every change is called **regression testing**

```
Test-first debugging: When a bug arises, immediately write a test case for it that elicits it, and immediately add it to your test suite..
```

In practice, these two ideas, automated testing and regression testing, are almost always used in combination. 

### Iterative test-first programming

Writing tests is a good way to understand the specification.

Similarly, writing the implementation may help you discover missing or incorrect tests, or prompt you to revisit and revise the specification.

Instead of trying to solve a problem perfectly from start to finish, iteration means reaching a rough solution as soon as possible, and then steadily refining and improving it.
