# 6.031 note 06

## Reading 20: Concurrency

**Race Condition**: A race condition means that the correctness of the program (the satisfaction of postconditions and invariants) depends on the relative timing of events in concurrent computations A and B. When this happens, we say “A is in a race with B.”

* Concurrency: multiple computations running simultaneously
* Concurrent Programming models: Shared-memory & message-passing paradigms
* Processes & threads
  * Process is like a virtual computer; thread is like a virtual processor
* Race conditions
  * When correctness of result (postconditions and invariants) depends on the relative timing of events

## Reading 21: Thread Safety

### What threadsafe means

A data type or static method is threadsafe if it behaves correctly when used from multiple threads, regardless of how those threads are executed, and without demanding additional coordination from the calling code.

* Behaves correctly” means satisfying its specification and preserving its rep invariant.
* “Regardless of how threads are executed” means threads might be on multiple processors or timesliced on the same processor.
* And “without additional coordination” means that the data type can’t put preconditions on its caller related to timing, like “you can’t call get() while set() is in progress.”

A **safety argument** needs to catalog all the threads that exist in your module or program, and the data that they use, and argue which of the four techniques you are using to protect against races for each data object or variable: confinement, immutability, threadsafe data types, or synchronization.

What we demand from a threadsafe data type is that when clients call its atomic operations concurrently, the results are consistent with some sequential ordering of the calls.

### Summary

This reading talked about three major ways to achieve safety from race conditions on shared mutable state:

* Confinement: not sharing the variables or data.
* Immutability: sharing, but keeping the data immutable and variables unreassignable.
* Threadsafe data types: storing the shared mutable data in a single threadsafe datatype.

## Reading 22: Locks and Synchronization

* Make thread safety arguments about your datatypes, and document them in the code.
* Acquiring a lock allows a thread to have exclusive access to the data guarded by that lock, forcing other threads to block — as long as those threads are also trying to acquire that same lock.
* The monitor pattern guards the rep of a datatype with a single lock that is acquired by every method.
* Blocking caused by acquiring multiple locks creates the possibility of deadlock.

## Reading 23: Queues and Message-Passing

* Rather than synchronize with locks, message passing systems synchronize on a shared communication channel, e.g. a stream or a queue.
* Threads communicating with blocking queues is a useful pattern for message passing within a single process.

## Reading 24: Sockets & Networking

Mostly about API, skipped for now

想去学一下 netty

## Reading 25: Callbacks

In an object-oriented programming language like Java that doesn’t support first-class functions directly, is to use an object with a method representing the function.

Java’s lambda expression syntax provides a succinct way to create instances of **functional objects**.

- [ ] TODO: read [First-class Everything](http://python-history.blogspot.com/2009/02/first-class-everything.html)

First-class Function, 想去学 scala
