# 6.031 note 05

## 14 Recursion

* Safe from bugs: Recursive code is simpler and often uses unreassignable variables and immutable objects.
* Easy to understand: Recursive implementations for naturally recursive problems and recursive data are often shorter and easier to understand than iterative solutions.
* Ready for change: Recursive code is also naturally reentrant, which makes it safer from bugs and ready to use in more situations(concurrency).

## 15 Equality

* In general, using instanceof in object-oriented programming is a bad smell. In good object-oriented programming, instanceof is disallowed anywhere except for implementing equals.

When you override the equals method, you must adhere to its general contract. It states that:

* equals must define an equivalence relation – that is, a relation that is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive;
* equals must be consistent: repeated calls to the method must yield the same result (as long as neither object has been mutated in a way that affects the equals comparison);
* for a non-null reference x, x.equals(null) should return false;
* hashCode must produce the same result for two objects that are deemed equal by the equals method.

Here is [a good StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/113511/best-implementation-for-hashcode-method-for-a-collection) about Hash Code

The Java library is unfortunately inconsistent about its interpretation of equals() for mutable classes. Collections like List, Set, and Map use observational equality, but other mutable classes like StringBuilder, and arrays, use behavioral equality.

Summary:

* Equality should be an equivalence relation (reflexive, symmetric, transitive).
* Equality and hash code must be consistent with each other, so that data structures that use hash tables (like HashSet and HashMap) work properly.
* The abstraction function is the basis for equality in immutable data types (which means immutable types must override equals(), and therefore hashCode()).
* Reference equality is the basis for equality in mutable data types; this is the only way to ensure consistency over time and avoid breaking rep invariants of hash tables.

## 16 Recursive Data Types

* Using an object, rather than a null reference, to signal the base case or endpoint of a data structure is an example of a design pattern called **sentinel objects**.
* Keep null values out of your data structures, and your life will be happier.

FIXME: I think the list is mutated after append？Why it is called immutable still?

## 17 Regular Expressions & Grammars

### Grammar

To describe a string of symbols, whether they are bytes, characters, or some other kind of symbol drawn from a fixed set, we use a compact representation called a **grammar**.

The literal strings in a grammar are called **terminals**. They’re called terminals because they can’t be expanded any further.

A grammar is described by a set of **productions**, where each production defines a **nonterminal**. You can think of a nonterminal like a variable that stands for a set of strings, and the production as the definition of that variable in terms of other variables (nonterminals), operators, and constants (terminals).

grammer定义了一个符合模式的字符串的集合。grammer 划分为 terminal 和 production；production 由 nonterminal 和位置组成: nonterminal 代表的字符串模式和 nonterminal 代表的模式在语句中的位置。root是一种特殊的 nonterminal,表示这个grammer 下所有允许的模式

_感觉 grammar 和 nonterminal 是同一个东西，都是符合模式的字符串的集合。_

### Parse trees

Matching a grammar against a string can generate a **parse tree** that shows how parts of the string correspond to parts of the grammar.

### Regular expressions

A regular grammar has a special property: by substituting every nonterminal (except the root one) with its righthand side, you can reduce it down to a single production for the root, with only terminals and operators on the right-hand side.

The reduced expression of terminals and operators can be written in an even more compact form, called a regular expression. Regular expressions are also called regexes for short.

Regexes are widely used in programming, and you should have them in your toolbox.

也就是说，正则表达式、正则化是用于简化符合模式的字符串儿产生的

In general, a language that can be expressed with our system of grammars is called context-free. Not all context-free languages are also regular; 

### Summary

Machine-processed textual languages are ubiquitous in computer science. Grammars are the most popular formalism for describing such languages, and regular expressions are an important **subclass** of grammars that can be expressed **without recursion**.

## 18 Parsers

A parser generator is a good tool that you should make part of your toolbox. A parser generator takes a grammar as input and automatically generates a parser, which takes a sequence of characters and tries to match the sequence against the grammar.

TODO: This reading is mainly about the lib and their usage. I skipped it now, and would return to this later in PS3.

## 19 Writing a Program with Abstract Data Types

Understand how to apply specification, testing, and iteration at different levels of software development: from single methods, to abstract data types, to entire programs

This reading is a case study about Matrix multiplication optimization.

Writing a program (consisting of ADTs and static methods):

1. Choose datatypes. Decide which ones will be mutable and which immutable.
2. Choose static methods. Write your top-level main method and break it down into smaller steps.
3. Spec. Spec out the ADTs and methods. Keep the ADT operations simple and few at first. Only add complex operations as you need them.
4. Test. Write test cases for each unit (ADT or method).
5. Implement simply first. Choose simple, brute-force representations. The point here is to put pressure on the specs and the tests, and try to pull your whole program together as soon as possible. Make the whole program work correctly first. Skip the advanced features for now. Skip performance optimization. Skip corner cases. Keep a to-do list of what you have to revisit.
6. Iterate. Now that it’s all working, make it work better. Reimplement, optimize, redesign if necessary.
