# 6.031 note 03

## 08 Mutability & Immutability

passed

## 09  Avoiding Debugging

The best defense against bugs is to make them impossible by design. (cool~)

* Avoid debugging

  * make bugs impossible with techniques like static typing, automatic dynamic checking, and immutability
* Keep bugs confined
  * failing fast with assertions keeps a bug’s effects from spreading
  * incremental development and unit testing confine bugs to your recent code
  * scope minimization reduces the amount of the program you have to search

### About assertion

A serious problem with Java assertions is that assertions are off by default.

* What to assert?
  * Method argument requirements.
  * Method return value requirements.

* What not to assert?
  * Avoid trivial assertions, just as you would avoid uninformative comments.
  * Never use assertions to test conditions that are external to your program, such as the existence of files, the availability of the network, or the correctness of input typed by a human user.
  * The correctness of your program should never depend on whether or not the assertion expressions are executed.

## 10 Abstract Data Types

The key idea of data abstraction is that a type is characterized by the operations you can perform on it.

* Abstract data types are characterized by their operations.
* Operations can be classified into creators, producers, observers, and mutators.
* An ADT’s specification is its set of operations and their specs.
* A good ADT is simple, coherent, adequate, and representation independent.
* An ADT is tested by generating tests for each of its operations, but using the creators, producers, mutators, and observers together in the same tests.
