# 6.031 note 04

## 11 Abstraction Functions & Rep Invariants

* An invariant is a property that is always true of an ADT object instance, for the lifetime of the object.
* A good ADT preserves its own invariants. Invariants must be established by creators and producers, and preserved by observers and mutators.
* The rep invariant specifies legal values of the representation, and should be checked at runtime with checkRep().
* The abstraction function maps a concrete representation to the abstract value it represents.
* Representation exposure threatens both representation independence and invariant preservation.
* An invariant should be documented, by comments or even better by assertions like checkRep(), otherwise the invariant is not safe from bugs.
* rep exposure safety argument. This is a comment that examines each part of the rep, looks at the code that handles that part of the rep, and presents a reason why the code doesn’t expose the rep.

## 12 Defining ADTs with Interfaces, Generics, Enums, and Functions

skimmed, maybe later

## 13 Debugging

* **10-minute rule**: If you’ve spent 10 minutes hunting for a bug using ad hoc, unsystematic inspection, then it’s time to take a step back and start applying the scientific method instead.
* **Sleep** on it. If you’re too tired, you won’t be an effective debugger. Trade latency for efficiency.

### 1. Study the data

In a Java stack trace, the latest call is on top, and the oldest call is on the bottom. But the calls at the top or bottom of the stack may be library code that you didn’t write. Your own code — where the bug is most likely to be — is often somewhere in the middle. Don’t let that dissuade you. Scan through the stack trace **until** you see something familiar, and then find it in your code.

### 2. Hypothesize

It can help to think about your program as a flow of data, or steps in an algorithm, and try to rule out whole sections of the program at once.

### 3. Experiment

#### Probe

* print statement
* logging
* assertion
* breakpoint

#### Swap components

If you hypothesize that the bug is in a module, and you happen to have a different implementation of it that satisfies the same interface, then one experiment you can do is to try swapping in the alternative.

#### One bug at a time

* Keep a bug list.
* Don’t get distracted from the bug you’re working on.

#### Don’t fix yet

It’s tempting to try to do an experiment that seems to fix the hypothesized bug, instead of a mere probe. This is almost always the wrong thing to do.

### 4. Repeat

* Keep an audit trail
* Check the plug
* If YOU didn’t fix it, it isn’t really fixed
