# 6.031 note 02

## 04 Code Review

Code review really has two purposes:

* Improving the code.
* Improving the programmer.

[The Reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/04-code-review/#avoid_magic_numbers) is really helpful, and I don't wanna miss any. Why not just vist the site and read it thoroughly?

The reading talked about these general principles of good code:

* Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY)
* Comments where needed
* Fail fast
* Avoid magic numbers
* One purpose for each variable
* Use good names
* Use whitespace to help the reader
* Don’t use global variables
* Methods should return results, not print them
* Avoid special-case code

Code review is not the only software development practice with strong supporting evidence. Another is: [sleep](https://increment.com/teams/the-epistemology-of-software-quality/).

## 05 Version Control

Mainly about git and some idea of version control.

TODO: look up the [reading](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/05-version-control/) and the recommended reading when needed, but not now.

## 06 Specification

Specification is a contract. The contract acts as a firewall between client and implementer. This firewall results in decoupling, allowing the code of the module and the code of a client to be changed independently, so long as the changes respect the specification — each obeying its obligation.

Abstractly speaking, a specification of a method has several parts:

* a method signature, giving the name, parameter types, return type, and exceptions thrown
* a requires clause, describing additional restrictions on the parameters
* an effects clause, describing the return value, exceptions, and other effects of the method

Taken together, these parts form the precondition and the postcondition of the method.

### Some trivial stuff

#### Do not allow null reference

As a general convention, null values are disallowed in parameters and return values unless the spec explicitly says otherwise. (I think this is an implicit specification)

If a method allows null values in a parameter, it needs to explicitly state it, or if it might return a null value in a result, it should explicitly state it. But these are in general not good ideas. Avoid null.  Fail fast* rather than silently accept null would have been helpful to developers.

If you avoid using null, there is still sometimes a need for a parameter or return value to indicate that a value is missing.

If you avoid using null, there is still sometimes a need for a parameter or return value to indicate that a value is missing. One good tool for this problem is Optional\<T\>.

#### Tests and Specification

Tests must follow the specification, even glass-box tests.

### Exceptions

Exception is the normal base class of **checked** exceptions. The compiler applies **static checking** to methods using these exceptions. A checked exception **must** either be caught or declared when it’s possible for it to be thrown.

However, RuntimeException and its subclasses are **unchecked** exceptions. RuntimeException and its subclasses don’t have to be declared in the throws clause of a method that throws them, and **doesn’t have to **be caught or declared by a caller of such a method.

Error and its subclasses are unchecked exceptions. Errors should be considered unrecoverable, and should not be caught by your code.

When you catch an exception with a try-catch statement, you should catch the **most specific** exception class possible.

## 07 Designing Specifications

* Deterministic vs. underdetermined specs
* Declarative vs. operational specs
* Stronger vs. weaker specs
